# Entry 1

The purpose of Freedom Project is to give students a chance to delve deeper into a topic that piques their interest. This topic must be STEM related, and while exploring on their own, students will be able to create an innovation or concept surrounding that topic, serving to fix an identified issue. This is a chance for students to express their creativity in a project made for themselves to learn with general freedom.

My topic is about mental illness and psychology. I have researched how mental illnesses can be caused by several factors in a person's life, whether that be environmental or hereditary. I am planning to connect it to psychology, since mental illnesses impact humans' behavior, which can explain how the study of behavior and mind works. Since the mind is extremely complex, there are going to be an abundance of details about how mental illnesses can impact an individual, and the shift in their relationships, culture, and society in general. I also started reading up on the symptoms of mental illnesses in order to get a picture of how they first develop, and how to identify them. https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mental-illness/symptoms-causes/syc-20374968 

My project will serve to educate people on mental illnesses, and inform them about how it connects to real life experiences/ situations. The potential beneficial impacts it can have on society are: teaching people about different types of mental illnesses and disorders, allowing for people to lend a hand to others they know who have a mental illness, or allowing for the issue to be more easily discussed and to not be ignored in society. This can also make people more openminded to other perspectives, and how other people act or think due to the mental disorder they have. Work environments will be more accepting and provide more care for overwhelmed employees when a majority of people begin to speak out more actively on mental illness. On the contrary, there are also some detriments that can come from this. Opening up the conversation about mental illness can also increase the possibility of ridicule that some people face when they reveal their mental illness, which still is a stigma in society. In relationships, people can shun one another, including their own family, as mental illness is seen as nonexistent and something that should not be addressed in many cultures. To conclude, there are a wealth of pros and cons to speaking out and informing about mental illnesses, as my project strives to do, and connecting them to psychology to serve as a reference to such explanations.

[Home](../README.md)
